# Kibana Dashboard
An importable kibana dashboard to use that's compatible with our filebeat setup.

## Description 
This Kibana dashboard provides several standard KQL/Lucene queries ready to go, some timelion charts, log counts etc, so that all the user has to do is import the kibana dashboard config from our repo. 

This will make our log analysis process even faster, helping us deliver analyses to clients in a more timely manner while keeping costs low. This also helps make our analysis more consistent, removing likelihood of using improper or misleading queries as well as potentially helping us write reports that have more consistent charts to our clients.

## Instructions
- If you haven't already, install kibana, filebeat etc, and ingest logs into Kibana using filebeat. This dashboard will work best if you use the filebeat.yml that is generated by our python script.
- Import the Dashboard
- Change the time filters to match these particular logs

## Development

### Add a new visualization
- Don't save the time filters. This way, the time filter will only be set by the dashboard, not the visualization.
- Probably do save the filters, assuming that the filter is an important part of the visualization.

### Export saved dashboards, queries, and visualizations
#### Using Kibana GUI
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/7.8/managing-saved-objects.html#managing-saved-objects-export-objects
Our Dashboard is Called "Cassandra Logs Dashboard", and we have some queries namespaced with the word "Cassandra" as well so search for "Cassandra" in the saved objects search bar to find our dashboard and queries. Make sure to save all related objects.

#### Using API
(Have not tried yet)
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/7.8/saved-objects-api-export.html#ssaved-objects-api-create-example
